the united nations secretary general is
appealing for an immediate end to
fighting between
israel and palestinians it comes as
health officials in gaza reported the
deaths of 42 people
in the latest israeli airstrikes among
them 10 children
israel says hamas has launched three
thousand rockets in the last week
killing ten israelis
our middle east editor jeremy bowen has
been in sterot in southern israel close
to the boundary with gaza
not much is left of valhipta street in
the heart of gaza city
after the heaviest israeli strikes since
this war started
and the deadliest day for palestinians
they were looking for survivors
he says raise your voice so we can hear
you are you okay
not many were found alive families
escape
with children who won't forget this day
when i was carrying my small boy he told
me dad
i don't want to die what more do you
want from him
there is no safety in this city
benjamin netanyahu israel's prime
minister convened his security chiefs
a cabinet meeting did not discuss a
ceasefire
on the way down to the gaza border are
some of the communities the government
here says must be safe from rockets
before it will stop its attacks israel's
leaders said the same thing
during the other wars with hamas
the israeli army showed off their
anti-missile system
iron dome they say it shoots down around
90 percent of the missiles fired out of
gaza
previous wars between israel and hamas
have ended with
mediation generally with egypt involved
leading to a ceasefire now
contacts have been made but it's a
difficult process because
each side needs to get to the the point
where they can say to their people that
the sacrifices
their damage the killing were worth it
if israel takes this to the next level
with a ground invasion of gaza that
process gets knocked on
further into the future the 2014 war
lasted for nearly two months iron dome
is one reason why israel suffers fewer
casualties than gaza
another is the weight of israel's
firepower
well civilians of course aren't our
target they never are but you do kill
them and any loss of life on both sides
of this conflict any loss of civilian
life is tragic again
it does happen an awful lot in gaza and
i i hear that and again
any any loss of civilian life is is
tragic it happens here as well
while we were there they launched
a volley of missiles was heading out of
gaza north towards the israeli town of
ashkelon iron dome didn't stop all of
them
but this wasn't a fatal attack
in gaza six-year-old susie esquintana
was pulled out of the rubble
her mother two sisters and two brothers
were killed
until he saw susie her father riyad
thought he was the only one left
thank god he said because one day she
might recapture the smiles
of all his daughters
the amer the israelis blame hamas
for the deaths of palestinian civilians
they say that hamas
effectively hides behind its own people
in america president biden and the white
house are saying that
israel has a right always
to defend itself biden's always been a
strong supporter
of israel but egypt while saying it
takes its mediation
duties very seriously is using harsher
language about the israelis things like
aggressors and occupying army
this conflict polarizes opinion
like no other jeremy bowen in jerusalem
thank you